PGENETICS-D-26-00481
The genome of the Pacific acorn barnacle provides insights into the evolution of extremely large populations
PLOS Genetics

Dear Dr. Rivera-Colón,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PLOS Genetics. As with all papers, your manuscript was reviewed by members of the editorial board. Based on our assessment, we have decided that the work does not meet our criteria for publication and will therefore be rejected. The reviewers' comments are included at the bottom of this email.

We are sorry that we cannot be more positive on this occasion. We very much appreciate your wish to present your work in one of PLOS's Open Access publications. Thank you for your support, and we hope that you will consider PLOS Genetics for other submissions in the future.

Yours sincerely,

Alan O. Bergland
Guest Editor
PLOS Genetics

Kelly Dyer
Section Editor
PLOS Genetics

Aimée Dudley
Editor-in-Chief
PLOS Genetics

Anne Goriely
Editor-in-Chief
PLOS Genetics


Additional Editor Comments (if provided):

This manuscript has been reviewed by three expert reviewers as well as myself. We appreciated the thoroughness of the analysis, and generally found the writing clear. There was also a shared sentiment that (1) the focus on genome assembly of hyperpolymorphic species was put forward as a central aspect of the paper, but there was no assessment presented that this was the “best way to do the assembly”; (2) the section on allozymes fell short because of the limited sampling of individuals (and no mention of intentional sampling across tidal height suggests that the relevant haplotypes may have not been sampled); (3) there are multiple places where the presentation of results could be improved; and (4) there was insufficient or inaccurate representations of the published literature. I agree with all of the reviewer’s comments.

Although the paper is strong technically, the conceptual advances presented by the authors are not strong enough for PloS Genetics. We encourage resubmission to PLoS Genetics if the authors can incorporate additional spatial sampling/sequencing across broad (latitudinal) or local (intertidal height) scales.

Specific comments:

Lines 95-98, the authors cite Nunez et al 2021 as an example of a study focusing on Mpi, and follow with a statement that “this work has been restricted to a handful of loci…” That is not a fair reading of Nunez 2021, which conducted whole-genome pooled resequencing. To be fair, the reference genome they used was not perfect but I think that Nunez 2021 does more than you give it credit for.

Lines 228-236. Although the function of these genes may not be speculative, the discussion of their function as it relates to positive selection is highly speculative and does not seem relevant for the Results section.

Line 271. This sentence is not a good topic sentence for the paragraph as it jumps right into the tubular gene and discusses it as the single example of excess polymorphism. After discussing this gene, the rest of the paragraph is about genes showing evidence of positive selection. I suggest that you retool the topic sentence. Also, to reiterate my comment above - the function of these genes is not a result of your work. It is a speculative interpretation about how the likely function of these genes is the target of flavors of selection. It is probably not necessary and could be trimmed to make the paper a bit shorter.

Figure 3 legend (and throughout). What method did you use to correct p-values?

Parenthetical citations: Please correct the style of the parenthetical citations (and possibly bibliography) to conform to Plos G’s style. Citations are neither in alphabetical order nor chronological order; more than one author are listed for pubs with more than two authors; sometimes there are initials for first & middle names, sometimes not. I think PLOS G has numerically ordered citations.

Line 295-351. The classic story from Semibalanus is that Mpi is stratified based on position in the intertidal. You all collected six barnacles but did not, apparently, specifically stratify on intertidal height. Therefore, you could have missed an important allelic class (either due to sampling a single position in the intertidal, or just chance).

Figure 4. The text in this figure is tiny. Consider improving for readability. Same goes for Fig. S7

Lines 376-379. It is a little hard to assess the veracity of this claim. For example, there is a correlation coefficient of -.181 between Pi and the proportion of repeats (Fig S11). Is that coefficient statistically different from zero? I bet it is. And, those conspicuous dips in theta-pi and Watterson’s theta at the center of each chromosome sure do look like centromeres. Do barnacles have metacentric chromosomes? Also, what are you calling “repeats” in 6B? Could that be anything from a microsat to a TE? How does this correlation change if you focus only on TEs?

Line 379: “see below”. See below where?

Lines 424-462. I found this section challenging as the first section of the discussion. You don’t really evaluate different methods / approaches for genome assembly in a highly heterozygous species. Consider reducing length.


[Note: HTML markup is below. Please do not edit.]

Reviewers' Comments (if peer reviewed):

Reviewer's Responses to Questions

Comments to the Authors:
Please note here if the review is uploaded as an attachment.

Reviewer #1: General Comments:

The authors generated a chromosome-level genome assembly for Balanus glandula, an ecologically important and well-studied barnacle species in West Coast rocky shore ecosystems. This genome assembly is of high quality and will be a useful resource for future evolutionary studies on this species. Additionally, analyses of this genome assembly, a draft assembly of a congener, and WGS data of 6 individuals from one population, provide insights into the evolutionary dynamics of species with large population sizes and highly heterozygous genomes.

Overall, the manuscript is well-written, and the methodology is thorough. However, I have a handful of comments about the manuscript, which will help ground these analyses in greater taxonomic and ecological context.

1) In the Introduction there should be increased information about the life history of the species since these details are pertinent for understanding demographic and selection processes in the species. For example, how long is the planktonic larval duration? What is their mode of reproduction? What is the timing of spawning? How many offspring are produced per individual?

2) This manuscript focuses extensively on the fact that B. glandula is a species with large population sizes. However, there is a large amount of spatial and temporal variation in B. glandula reproductive output, recruitment, and abundance along the west coast, across both small and large scales (e.g., Gaines, Brown & Roughgarden 1985; Berger 2009; Broitman et al. 2008; MARINe long-term monitoring data). Additionally, the coastline is linear in nature creating unique patterns of dispersal and gene flow. These dynamics greatly impact how evolutionary processes function in this species – e.g., there is a low likelihood of adaptation to local conditions since planktonic larvae from one population often disperses to another population. These dynamics need to be noted in the Introduction and there should be greater interpretation of what the genomic patterns of high heterozygosity, strong positive selection, etc. mean within the context of the life history and ecology of this particular species.

3) Given that some of the motivation in the Introduction focuses on the difficulty in assembling genomes for species with high heterozygosity, more information should be provided in the results of the genome assembly to indicate the novelty of the methodology used to produce a very complete assembly with low duplicates.

4) More information is needed about the sampling of the individuals from the Oregon population. It is stated in the Discussion that “intertidal microhabitat is approximately uniform in our central Oregon sampling”. The central Oregon rocky coastline, including Cape Perpetua where the samples were collected for the WGS, is a dynamic environment with high levels microhabitat variation (e.g., Sanford & Menge 2001 provides evidence that variation in wave exposure within a site influences post-settlement mortality of barnacle and growth rate). Also, given that previous research on barnacles has shown that variation in allozyme loci are associated with spatial heterogeneity (Hedgecock 1994, Schmidt & Rand 1999; Nunez et al. 2020), why was microhabitat not considered prior to sampling, as lack of this information greatly weakens the interpretability of patterns from the data.


Specific Edits:

Since a large focus of this manuscript is the generation of the genome assembly for B. glandula, the manuscript would benefit from a table in the main text that summarizes the key genome statistics of the final assembly – total length, N50, BUSCO completeness values, etc. – values that are currently in Table S1.

Since the focus of the manuscript is on B. glandula, for the synteny plot in Figure 1, B. glandula should be in the middle row, since it would be easier to see the associations of B. glandula with the other two barnacle species.

To improve the utility of figure 3 in conveying information, it could be useful to state the gene names on Figure 3 that are mentioned in the text.

The axes and legend for Figure 4 should be bigger to make it easier to read.

Congeneric barnacles are barnacles belonging to the same genus. Thus, Semibalanus balanoides and Balanus glandula are not congers (line 582). Also, the patterns of variation in Gpi identified in Flight & Rand 2012 and stated in the following sentence were identified in S. balanoides. Thus, it would be more appropriate to state the species name rather than mention ‘other marine invertebrates’, as that insinuates that patterns in Gpi have been identified more broadly across marine invertebrate taxa.

It is stated in the Discussion that B. glandula has “small propagule size” (line 612). B. glandula is a simultaneous hermaphrodite that broods its offspring, and releases about 30,000 larvae per brood (Newman & Abbott 1980). Thus, similar to many other marine invertebrates that broadcast spawn, the species has high fecundity and high levels of early life mortality.

The methods are incredibly thorough and easy to follow.

The link for the code is not working. Also, the final assembly and annotation files should be available for preview to reviewers.


Line Edits:

Line 205: For clarity in reading, change one of the words “consistent” to something else, since it is used twice within the same sentence.

Line 234: Error in the initials for the citation C.H. Cheng et al. 2021.

Reviewer #2: This is a very comprehensive study on the genome of a marine invertebrate with extremely large population size. I commend the authors on putting together a manuscript that was clear, technically accurate, and has more depth than an average genome paper. Overall I just have a few recommendations for improvements:

- While the study is comprehensive and technically accurate, the manuscript is very long and gets technically difficult to follow in some places. I make a few suggestions below, but I encourage the authors to reduce the length of the manuscript, revise some text to make it more broadly accessible to users, and tweaking some of the graphics to make them more intuitive for readers.
- It is unclear what the sample size for the population genomics is. Some places mention 6 samples and some mention 8 samples.
- One section that could be cut from the manuscript is the comparison to previous allozyme studies because more samples are needed to do this comparison well. The previous allozyme work was about spatial heterogeneity and local adaptation within a species, while the tests being done for selection are more about fixation of different nucleotides between species. While the latter is a type of test of selection, it doesn’t really get at whether the microgeographic signals reflect sweepstakes or local adaptation. This analysis is better saved for a more comprehensive analysis with more samples, or moved to the supplement and substantially shortened in the main text.
- One of the main themes in the paper is how “extreme” this species is in comparison to other species, but the extremity is not presented well until the reader gets to the discussion (and even there it is often presented in relative terms) . I recommend adding some levels of heterozygosity and nucleotide diversity observed in various wild populations of well-known species in the introduction, and adding some statistics of other species on the figures and in the Results text to help readers understand the context.
- The statistics presented did not exactly convince me that the genome was purged of haplotigs. Could you plot a distribution of the coverage to show that it is not bimodal? (e.g. https://doi.org/10.1111/1755-0998.13801)
- A main take-home is that purifying selection is very efficient (as expected), but this kind of glosses over the paradox that there are more deleterious mutations segregating in larger populations and this can lead to higher load https://academic.oup.com/cz/article/62/6/567/2745835 . It would be helpful to but the results of this study in context of that review in the discussion.
- There are a number of statistics that readers may or may not be familiar with, so it would be helpful to add a short statement about each test statistic and its biological interpretation in the results. For example the Neutrality Index is not explained; Figure 3 gets a little confusing with lower values of NI on the right side. Adding some biological context (e.g. show areas of the plot inferred to be neutral) would help the results reach a wider audience. As another example, biased use of codon results could illustrate to the reader the values to expect if there was no bias. Etc.
- Estimating Ne in large populations is statistically problematic with many estimators (see https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/faf.12338 and related papers) and no confidence intervals are presented; it would be helpful to mention the statistical issues in the discussion
- In the discussion it would strengthen the case of Synonymous substitutions being under selection to cite some reasons why; for example they can affect the stability of RNAs
- In the discussion on the paradox of the dn/ds and McDonald-Kreitman test, it might be helpful to cite examples of the majority of a coding sequence can be under purifying selection while specific residues are under positive selection (e.g., https://doi.org/10.1038/nrg3905 )

Overall there were many sections of the paper I enjoyed, especially the challenges of genome assembly and the paradox of the dn/ds and McDonald-Kreitman test. It’s a fascinating paper and with some revisions it will make a nice addition to the literature.

Reviewer #3: The authors present a new genome assembly for the ecologically important barnacle Balanus glandula and generate genomic data for one population sample in Oregon and additional assemblies of relatives to facilitate analyses of variation and selection. I have no major concerns about the methods used in the paper and appreciate the significant effort invested to assemble the genome and execute the analyses. The paper is clear and the methods and supplement are thorough. My main concern is around the framing of the work. As written, the primary argument seems to be that we need more studies of organisms with big population sizes and here we have executed another one—I think this argument is not the most compelling one they could make. They could talk more about the organism/ecology and emphasize what specifically this work adds to the field (i.e., the exceptional ecological context of this barnacle and its staggering census size, testing the predictions of extremely effective purifying and positive selection). Throughout the paper, the authors also bring up interesting challenges in this area (Lewontin’s Paradox, dealing with hyperpolymorphic genomic data) but don’t really squarely address them. The outcome is that the major takeaways (which are interesting) end up falling a bit flat. More comprehensively comparing and contrasting results in this barnacle with other studies of large populations would also help highlight what this work adds (even better with a figure). Potentially simulations exploring the implications of the results would add to the work as well (i.e., can this help explain strong clines over small spatial scales despite high dispersal? How much more effective should selection be in this system vs flies? What does these results predict about response to changing conditions?). A more minor concern—I think organizing the paper such that the section on diversity in the assembly is followed by the sections on diversity in populations and on estimating effective population size (before getting into HCE’s and selection) would make for a clearer conceptual thread. Predictions about selection make more sense after getting the info on variation and effective population size and it is awkward skipping ahead in multiple places (e.g., 240-241) where the manuscript has to allude to a section that hasn’t come yet.

Line notes
1.Line 53. Unless the authors are certain they have comprehensively assessed the literature for empirical studies of variation and selection in large population sizes, it would be better to phrase this sentence differently along the lines of “while there have been empirical studies on these mechanisms in large populations (e.g. ………), they remain rare.” The “few key exceptions” is problematic if some have been left out—for example, I can think of Halligan et al. 2010 PloS Genetics which looks at wild house mice with a large effective population size (and census size) as well as Drosophila. I think it is fine to argue that this topic is understudied as a motivation for the work, but it is not the strongest argument. Adding one taxon to a big gap is not necessarily that compelling. However, emphasizing the unique aspects of this system (the truly enormous census sizes, interesting examples of the ecological context, clines despite significant potential for dispersal, etc.) and what we can gain from this specific work would be more persuasive.
2.Line 96- this seems incorrect given the citation of Alm Rosenblad et al. 2021 which does use genomic data to estimate diversity.
3.Line 152. It would be helpful to have a phylogeny to help interpret this result even if it is a cartoon type tree or in the supplement.
4.Line 165- A table of expected/observed heterozygosity per site classification type (coding, non-coding, 0, 4-fold, etc.) is needed.
5.Line 183- Please define criteria for HCE in the main text.
6.Lines 186-190. This is unclear.
7.Lines 226-228—Not sure about this explanation. Is the function unknown bc of poor annotation or lack of functional annotation in this species? Or do you mean that the steps you took to curate the set necessarily restricted the analysis to genes with less info about function for some reason?
8.Line 239-Justify a sample of six individuals (or explicitly discuss limitations for both variation and selection).
9.A SFS figure would be helpful.
10.Line 252—why not reconcile this right here? For readers that do know these tests well, it is unsatisfying to delay because the explanation is clear. Readers that don’t understand these tests will appreciate being able to interpret the results right here. Alternatively, it could be effective to include the explanation up front in the framing—explain why the tests differ and how they assess different things before you even give the results. Then you can wrap up this section with a very clear statement that there is evidence of highly effective positive and purifying selection.
11.Line 361- Is this long or short read?
12.Line 409 -was this an average theta over all sites or over putatively neutral sites (intergenic, 4-fold, etc)? Also, is there a bound on the estimate of mutation rate that we should consider in estimating the effective population size? What exactly is the census size? I saw a density estimate earlier but not an actual census size estimate. A census size estimate is given in the next to last part of the paper but put it here or earlier.
13.Line 422-Lewontin’s Paradox is mentioned without explanation for the first time here. It really should be discussed in the framing of the work or explained more here or not mentioned all until the end of the discussion in the context of future directions. The mention here is confusing as it is.
14.Section starting at 424. The goal of this section is not clear. The key point seems to be that genome assembly is challenging for highly heterozygous genome but that there are many new tools that help and it would be great to assess them w/r to their potential to address those challenges. However, this paper doesn’t do any of those things so it seems unsatisfying to bring it up and then just say any new genome produced is progress?
15.Line 478—unclear, try “that the functional classes of sites targeted by purifying selection…..” As it reads, it sounds more specific (like the same genes targeted).
16.Line 498—could you divide these sites up and look at signals of constraint as a class?
17.Line 500- Is there evidence of silencing mechanisms as with plants that also have high TE/repeat content or could that be an explanation?
18.Line 554- It would strengthen the paper to have more comparisons like these with other taxa to put the results in context. There is a great opportunity for a figure contrasting census size, effective population size, pi, selection, etc. among large population species.
19.Section at 556- It would be good to better develop the biology and significance of these allozyme loci before discussing the results. For example, the sentence at 583 should begin the paragraph. Many people will not be familiar with the history of work in this field and those that are will appreciate revisiting them to reflect on whether this work sheds new light.
20.Line 610-Lancelets
21.Line 616-What are the other systems that are hyperpolymorphic? Maybe discuss these earlier in the intro.
22.Line 620- “of/above”
23.Lines 637- this comes so late!
24.Lines 667-I am a little confused about what DNA was extracted. Was it from sperm or diploid cells?
